# Automated machine learning: Speech classification for hearing aid applications and its real-time implementation on smartphone


## Overview
This GitHub repository provides for Alert signal detection and separation on iOS smartphone platforms. The example app provided here is for hearing improvement studies. 

> **Abstract:** Deep neural networks (DNNs) have been useful in solving benchmark problems in various domains including audio. DNNs have been used to improve several speech processing algorithms that improve the speech comprehension in hearing impaired listeners. To make use of DNNs to their full potential and to configure models easily, automated machine learning (AutoML) systems are developed, focusing on model optimization. As an application of AutoML to audio and hearing aids, this work presents an AutoML based voice activity detector (VAD) that is implemented on a smartphone as a real-time application. The developed VAD can be used to elevate the performance of speech processing applications like speech enhancement that are widely used in hearing aid devices. The classification model generated by AutoML is computationally fast and has minimal processing delay, which enables an efficient, real-time operation on a smartphone. The steps involved in real-time implementation are discussed in detail. The key contribution of this work include the utilization of AutoML platform for hearing aid applications and the realization of AutoML model on smartphone. The evaluations also show improvements over the state of art techniques and reflect the practical usability of the developed smartphone app in different noisy environments.



## Requirements 
- Google AutoML Engine
Use guide for iOS implementation. 
## License and Citation
The codes are licensed under MIT license.


## Disclaimer
This work was supported in part by the National Institute of the Deafness and Other Communication Disorders (NIDCD) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) under Award 1R01DC015430-04. The content is solely the responsibility of the authors and does not necessarily represent the official views of the NIH
